For this update, we’re going to focus
on our all-important disciple-making work.
Despite the pandemic,
the Governing Body continues to look for ways
to make our ministry even more effective.
How?
By continuing to build on the direction
provided at the 2017 annual meeting.
At that meeting, the Governing Body
announced organizational adjustments
based on 1 Corinthians 9:26.
That verse says:
“Therefore, the way I am running
“is not aimlessly;
“the way I am aiming my blows is
so as not to be striking the air.”
How do we make our “blows” count?
We focus on what Acts 13:48 mentions
—searching for “those who [are]
rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
How have we been helped to do that?
Consider a few examples from the past year.
We reviewed Watchtower  study articles
that focused on helping new ones
progress to baptism
and that reminded us
to discontinue unproductive studies.
The 2020 regional convention program
devoted an entire day
to the disciple-making work
and to helping Bible students
progress to baptism.
Who could forget Neeta and Jade?
Our November campaign
included a special effort
to provide government officials
with information
about God’s Kingdom,
with the goal of reaching even more
“rightly disposed” ones.
And aren’t we excited
to use the new Bible study tool,
Enjoy Life Forever!,
which features
a more effective teaching style?
But 2020 saw another significant effort
to make our blows count.
In June 2020,
it was announced
that all branches would evaluate
their foreign-language
and indigenous-language pregroups,
groups, and congregations.
What was the reason for this evaluation?
Notice what the Governing Body conveyed
to the elders at that time:
“In recent years,
“Jehovah’s people have responded
to the call to expand their ministry
“by learning another language
in order to reach honesthearted ones,
“and publishers should be commended
“for their self-sacrificing efforts
in this regard.
“Nevertheless,
“it has been noted that in some cases
“pregroups or groups
show little evidence of growth,
“with few progressive Bible studies
“and few, if any, progressing to baptism.
“In harmony with 1 Corinthians 9:26,
“the Governing Body wants to be certain
that we are making our blows count.”
How were these language groups
and congregations evaluated?
Notice what happened in the first century
when Paul and his companions
wanted to expand their ministry.
Acts 16:6-10 explains
that they traveled many miles
and made concerted efforts
to preach in various territories.
However, Jehovah, through his holy spirit,
directed them to the right area.
Let’s read this at Acts 16:9:
“And during the night
“a vision appeared to Paul
“—a Macedonian man was standing there
“urging him and saying:
‘Step over into Macedonia and help us.’”
How did they respond?
Verse 10 says:
“As soon as he had seen the vision,
“we tried to go into Macedonia,
“drawing the conclusion
“that God had summoned us
to declare the good news to them.”
When they discerned Jehovah’s direction,
the brothers immediately followed
the leading of the holy spirit.
Likewise, we follow the spirit’s lead.
Of course, it’s not provided through visions
but through evidence in the field.
The recent evaluation showed
that some foreign-language
and indigenous-language groups
and congregations had existed for years
and yet had few or no publishers
who were dependent on the language.
In other cases,
the territory was very scattered,
so publishers and pioneers
had to travel long distances
to find someone who could speak the language.
Despite all of this effort,
there were few Bible studies
and few interested ones, if any,
who attended meetings.
What was Jehovah’s spirit telling us?
It would be better to use our efforts
in other fields.
Thus, such pregroups, groups,
and congregations
were dissolved.
Have you been personally impacted
by this evaluation?
If so, you’re not alone.
For example, as a result of the evaluation
in just 16 branch territories,
some 4,700 elders,
2,800 ministerial servants,
and 11,000 regular pioneers
have been made available
to serve in other fields.
At one time, we may have thought
that the largest increase was taking place
in foreign-language
or indigenous-language fields.
But as we’ve considered the matter
more carefully,
it seems that congregations
in the main languages of many countries
are experiencing the largest numbers
of newly baptized disciples.
So if you’re now returning
to a congregation
in one of the main languages of your country,
remember that you are needed there!
Many congregations are struggling
to cover their large territories.
In major cities,
there may be millions of people to reach
but few publishers and pioneers available
to preach.
Many pioneers and publishers are finding
progressive return visits
and Bible studies in these fields.
And think of how the congregations
are being strengthened
as so many mature ones join them!
More appointed brothers are now available
to help with shepherding,
to deliver meeting parts,
and to assist in many other ways.
What practical blessings are resulting
from this evaluation?
Let’s hear the thoughts
of a few Branch Committee members.
Thanks to the wise direction
of the Governing Body,
the way we accomplish our ministry
has improved.
More publishers, qualified pioneers,
and appointed brothers
will be able to rapidly help
other congregations
and concentrate their efforts
in the most productive language fields
or fields with a greater potential.
This evaluation has allowed us
to assign graduates
from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
and special pioneers as well,
to more productive territories.
But what we’re hearing is
that this has energized
the ministry of these pioneers.
In fact, many of them are conducting
progressive Bible studies now.
None of us find adjustments easy,
so it has been so encouraging
to see how many have been willing
to adapt to these changes,
in fact, embracing them.
In one language field,
some brothers
were a little hesitant at first,
but they were loyal.
So, of course,
they went along with the changes.
Now the circuit overseer tells us
that these ones have sent
so many expressions of appreciation
thanking them for these loving adjustments.
Many learners have informed us
that it has greatly reduced
their stress level.
This has allowed them now
to be in a congregation
that they can concentrate more
on a productive ministry
and take care
of their own spirituality as well.
There’s one brother
who is learning another language.
And he was in a congregation,
and this changed
from being a congregation to a group.
And he said, “It’s as if finally someone
has just released the pressure valve.”
Truly, our Branch Committee
saw Jehovah’s spirit act
and is convinced he blessed this evaluation.
What about our pioneers and publishers?
Let’s hear from some who have experienced
these adjustments firsthand.
In the congregation
where I’m serving now in Portuguese,
the territory is very productive.
People are so receptive.
I had the goal of starting one Bible study
when I was in the foreign language group.
When the adjustment came,
in just a few weeks I had five studies.
We would drive around for hours
looking for just a few specific individuals.
Now we just preach to people,
and if we find foreign-language speakers,
we can still preach to them too.
I have more joy in my ministry because I feel
like I’m making good use of my time.
Well, we loved being in foreign language,
but realistically it takes a lot of time.
So we’ve really enjoyed having more time
to prepare for our meeting parts
and discuss the points and our application.
It’s been a really nice blessing.
I personally have really benefited
from having the extra time
just to spend on cultivating
my relationship with Jehovah.
Something really, really interesting
is what one brother said from another group.
He said: “OK,
“now I think I understand better
the way that Jehovah does math.
“So instead of having 15 people
learn a language to help one person,
“now just one person
needs to learn a language
“to be able to benefit
from an entire congregation
—100 brothers or more.”
The first concern that I think we all had
was for those who depended on the language.
But as it’s turned out
and as they’ve become part
of the congregation,
now they have an even bigger family
of brothers and sisters who care about them.
So in our small congregation,
the attendance to the Memorial
was usually just the publishers.
Now, being in this new congregation,
it’s very exciting because this year
we had almost double the amount
of the publishers
in our congregation for the attendance.
So that’s very encouraging to see.
We feel that now we are putting
our time and energy
into a territory that is actually productive,
and like 1 Corinthians 9:26 says,
we feel like we are making our “blows” count.
If you’re in the same situation
as these publishers,
what will you do now?
Like Paul,
we need to be willing to redirect our efforts
based on the leadings of God’s spirit.
Learning another language may be one way
that we can expand our ministry.
But it’s not the only way.
Where is the greatest need for preachers?
Where is there evidence of growth?
It might be in the field
of your primary language.
For practical advice
on where your efforts and abilities
are most needed,
speak to your circuit overseer
or write to your local branch office.
Jehovah’s organization is on the move,
and it will not be stopped by the pandemic
or anything else!
Will this recent adjustment in priorities
lead to even greater increases?
Perhaps.
It’s too soon to say.
But we’re receiving positive reports.
One branch reported that they’ve had
ten consecutive peaks
in the number of publishers.
And another branch said
that the number of new regular pioneers
and new Bible studies
is growing at a pace never seen before.
The Governing Body has every confidence
that Jehovah will strengthen each of you
so that we can truly make our blows count.
We love all of you very much!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.